

Idea Proposal and Reflection

In big cities, the health inspection results for restaurants are posted in the front window using a grading system.  

In Onondaga county, we don’t have that system.  The only way to find out how clean a kitchen is, is by looking at the NYS government website, https://health.data.ny.gov/Health/Food-Service-Establishment-Last-Inspection/cnih-y5dw, or Syracuse.com does post recent health inspections weekly.

What we did was use the API at the above site to determine what grade the restaurants in Onondaga county should have.  

NYC’s scoring system, https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/rii/how-we-score-grade.pdf.  Another helpful article, http://newyork.seriouseats.com/2010/07/a-guide-to-the-new-restaurant-grading-system.html

The process:
First, import the API.
Narrow down scope to just Onondaga County
Next, calculate number of violations.  Maybe critical violations are weighted more. 
Based on the number of violations, a grade is assigned.
User is asked to enter the name of a restaurant, program spits out grade.

Reflection:
As a team, we worked together a lot with guidance from people who were more familiar with this programming language. 
We used one computer and input all our ideas through jupyter-notebook, as opposed to working remotely through github. 
This was crucial, because we were able to bounce ideas off of each other and brainstorm through parts of the code. 
Things worked out well, however we did have a couple of issues with our code when it came to using Try and Except 
in order to provide a clean error message if the input was typed incorrectly. We noticed that code placement happened 
to be our biggest issue but we eventually figured it out. This was a very challenging project for us but during the process
we learned so much and hopefully we can apply it to our future careers. Big thanks to Nick Lyga for dealing with us on slack 
and the TA’s who helped us and were patient with us. It was a busy past few days, bit we feel satisfied with how the project 
turned out.  

Our group worked well together to get the project completed.  
It was fun to actually use what we learned in class in a practical manor.  
We created a program that is usable to people in the real world which feels good.  
Overall, we are happy to have gotten this experience and very happy the class is over.
